[ UUID ] 2c14926c-4d0c-452b-a22c-bed5b843c66d

[ Session Name ] A Game of Cyber Shadows
[ Primary Space ] Privacy and Security

[ Submitter's Name ] Siddhartha Rao
[ Submitter's Affiliated Organisation ] Pace University, NY
[ Submitter's Github ] @siddhartharao17
What will happen in your session?

Introduction
Browsers and Internet are an integral and inseparable parts of our lives now. Browsers generate browser history - a type of metadata - that ISPs now openly record for user profiling(cyber shadow) and personalized targeting.

Problem?

    It is personal data. Hence, a direct breach of privacy.
    Unintentionally, we give out valuable information.

[Hands-on] In this session, the participants would play Sherlock Holmes & we would demonstrate how browser history could be used to deduce cybershadows.

    Starts with a Sherlock Holmes story line.
    See how the browsing history details look like on paper.
    Try to deduce facts from it.
    Consolidate these facts to create a unique cyber shadow out of it.
    Verify the accuracy of the deduced shadow with the host's version.

What is the goal or outcome of your session?

Outcome of the session:

    Hands-on experience that would help participants know how profiling is done and the extent to which it can be accurate to derive a netizen’s personality on the web.
    It would also enlighten the users about what seems harmless on the front can be a nightmare at the back.
    It would also highlight the value of their data and importance of its protection.
    Ultimately, it would drive them to take measures for the same.

Who would provide the metadata?

    A forged or fake browsing history would be specially crafted for the session.
    Printed copies of this browsing history will be provided by the host to all participants to work with.

If your session requires additional materials or electronic equipment, please outline your needs.

The session requires the following materials:

    A white board and marker.
    Post-it notes, paper and pens
    Would be great if we could print copies of the browsing history on site (per copy - 3 to 5 pages). If not, that's cool too :D

Time needed

60 mins
